We begin with a report from Ukraine.
In 2014,
political tensions in eastern Ukraine
boiled over
into a full-blown military conflict.
Within months,
over 7,600 Witnesses
needed to flee the area
to seek refuge.
Others sheltered in their homes.
How did our brothers
survive physically
and spiritually
through the fighting?
Relief was organized
from hundreds of miles away
at the branch office in L’viv.
In the following interviews,
our brothers and sisters
describe the love and care
they received from the organization
and from each other.
It happened that the hostilities
started without warning,
and the brothers needed to flee quickly.
There was not enough food;
there was nothing in the stores;
there was a lack of medicine;
there was no water,
no electricity.
It was scary.
There was no stability at all.
We did not know what to do.
Should we stay, or should we leave?
There were triplets;
they were seven years old.
As soon as they
got into the shelter,
they started singing
a Kingdom song.
The adults
also joined them in singing,
and because of that,
we couldn’t hear the explosions
that were happening outside.
True, we ran out of foodstuffs,
and we had no money.
But I knew we would be able to get by.
God would not let us die of hunger.
Because the shelling was happening
so often, it was impossible
to conduct our usual meetings.
We also couldn’t organize the ministry
in the normal way.
It was just too dangerous.
When we received the first reports
about the unrest in the east,
our Branch Committee gathered
and we prayerfully analyzed
the situation.
We asked Jehovah for wisdom
—how to act,
how to help our brothers
to be spiritually and physically safe.
We were also sending regular
update reports to the Governing Body.
More than 156 tons of food
and 21 tons of clothing donated
by local brothers have been distributed
to fellow believers
and also to some non-Witnesses.
We had been told
that we would be receiving
about five tons of relief supplies.
So we were astounded
when instead of 5 tons,
we received 15 tons!
It was lovely to find little notes
that our brothers
and sisters had written
and included in the packages.
Brothers from neighboring cities responded
and offered their homes,
provided foodstuffs
and, more importantly,
their brotherly hospitality.
So we are ready to make sacrifices,
to adjust our schedules,
and to even take time
out from our families
to render practical help
to our brothers.
For example,
beginning at 6 a.m.,
I would visit
the brothers and sisters
and bring them
the things that they needed.
So during two and a half months of war
and two months of reconstruction,
I rode my bicycle
6,500 kilometers.
The local elders from Slavyansk
organized small congregations
and regularly conducted meetings
to support them spiritually.
Major repairs
have been carried out on 20 houses
of brothers and sisters,
and minor repair work
was done on 72 houses
and apartments.
We prepared two more programs.
This time, not only
for the congregations in the war zone
but for the whole country of Ukraine,
even for Russia and Belarus.
We even had 325,000
in attendance.
An interesting experience
was the response of the people
who were not Jehovah’s Witnesses.
They belong to another religion,
yet they said:
“You are the only ones
that really care.
Your genuine love
is shown by your deeds.”
This is what makes us different
from all other religions.
This unselfish love
shown by our brothers
did not go unnoticed
by my husband and my son.
My husband
started studying the Bible,
and he regularly attends
the meetings now.
Recently, he enrolled
in the Theocratic Ministry School.
I experienced this love personally,
and I started studying
the Bible again with the brothers.
Now I am preparing for baptism.
Unfortunately,
one of our sisters was killed.
I realized that a person can lose
—lose everything, but that
is really nothing
compared to losing your children.
The brothers and sisters listened to us.
We cried together.
I just can’t put it into words.
It is as if Jehovah
is holding you in his arms
—he doesn’t let you fall—
as if he is saying to you:
‘Don’t let go, my dear one.
I’m helping you.
I’m supporting you.’
With Jehovah there are no borders
between nations.
I could see
that this was the true religion.
We continue to pray
for our brothers in Ukraine.
We’re confident
of Jehovah’s love for them,
and we know he’ll sustain them
through any tribulation.